DOCS: Doc 1615 vmo tutorial (#6957)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/tutorials/vmo/vmo-maas.md

---
sidebar_position: 10
sidebar_label: "Deploy and Manage VMs with VMO and Terraform"
title: "Deploy and Manage VMs with VMO and Terraform"
description:
  "Learn how to create and manage Virtual Machines using Palette VMO on host clusters deployed to Canonical MAAS."
tags: ["VMO", "tutorial", "maas"]
category: ["tutorial"]
---

In this tutorial, you will deploy a VM using Palette Virtual Machine Orchestrator (VMO). You will learn about the
components that make up VMO, how to create and customize them for a Canonical MAAS VMO cluster deployment, and how to
customize and deploy a VM.

> <PartialsComponent category="vmo" name="intro-to-vmo" />

Reviewer: Nice usage of partials. Looking at this intro now, I think it is too long. Can you remove the usecases list and swap over the placement of your paragraph with the partial ? The information flow can then be intro to VMO, what you will do in this tutorial, prereqs. This is a good flow i think

## Prerequisites

- Access to a MAAS data center environment.

- Two MAAS machines with the following minimum hardware requirements:

  - 8 CPU Cores
  - 32 GB RAM
  - 250 GB Storage
  - Worker node must have two disks

- Three routable, static IP addresses available in your MAAS environment's network.

- An existing [MAAS Private Cloud Gateway (PCG)](/clusters/pcg/deploy-pcg/maas.md) in your MAAS environment.

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) installed locally.

> - Terraform Only

Reviewer: Let's make tabs here for UI & Terraform, then keep this bit prereq only on the TF tab.

| Cilium                       | `v1.17.1`   | Cilium is a networking, observability, and security solution with an eBPF-based data plane.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | <VersionedLink text="Cilium Readme" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=cni-cilium-oss&version=1.17.1"/>                                    |
| Palette eXtended Kubernetes  | `v1.32.2`   | Palette eXtended Kubernetes (PXK) is a recompiled version of the open source Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) distribution of Kubernetes. This Kubernetes version can be deployed through Palette to all major infrastructure providers, public cloud providers, and private data center providers. This is the default distribution when deploying a Kubernetes cluster through Palette | <VersionedLink text="Palette eXtended Kubernetes Readme" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=kubernetes&version=1.32.2"/>                   |

> | Ubuntu Mass                  | `v22.04`    | Ubuntu is a free, open source Operating System (OS) based on Linux used on desktops, servers, in the cloud, and for IoT devices. Ubuntu is a Linux distribution derived from Debian.                                                                                                                                                                                                             | <VersionedLink text="Ubuntu Readme" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=kubernetes&version=1.32.2"/>                                        |

Reviewer: This table should be move to the VMO cluster profile section below and function like profile layers. See https://deploy-preview-6957--docs-spectrocloud.netlify.app/tutorials/profiles/deploy-pack/#profile-layers
![CleanShot 2025-06-09 at 14 30 50](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/02803da6-c5fe-4644-adf5-089b850c31aa)

## Create a VMO Cluster Profile

<Tabs groupId="Workflows">

<TabItem label="UI" value="UI Workflow">

Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

From the left main menu, select **Profiles** > **Add Cluster Profile**.

Enter the name, version number, and any tags you wish to apply to the profile. Set the type value to **Full**. Select
**Next**.

> The **Cloud Type** screen displays all available options fo automated deployment of Kubernetes clusters. Select **MAAS**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Cloud Type** screen appears with all available options for automated deployment of Kubernetes clusters. Select **MAAS**
```

Reviewer: One nice way to create connection between your steps is to structure them like 
"Select this thing." 
"This other thing appears that shows you details about this third thing"

from the **Infrastructure provider** column. Select **Next**.

> The first profile layer is the OS layer. This tutorial uses the _Ubuntu v22.04_ OS image from the _Palette Registry (OCI)_.

Reviewer: This is where the packs table should move to. Then we should ask the user to create a full cluster profile according to the table. The steps here should guide the use on how to edit the profile layers as required.

Select **Ubuntu latest: v22.04**.

> Ubuntu requires customizations to support VMO. Select **Values** and paste ßthe configuration below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ubuntu requires customizations to support VMO. Select **Values** and paste the following configuration
```

into the text editor frame.

Update the value for `NETWORKS` to the appropriate subnet for your environment. The value you enter must be in CIDR

> notation and encapsulated in quotes. For example, `192.169.0.0/16`.

Reviewer: The example itself is missing the quotes 😆

    # Clean up stale container images
    - (crontab -l || true; echo "0 4 * * * /usr/bin/crictl -c /etc/crictl.yaml rmi --prune")| crontab -
    # Update CA certs
    - update-ca-certificates
    # Start containerd with new configuration
    - systemctl daemon-reload
    - systemctl restart containerd
  postKubeadmCommands:
    - 'echo "====> Applying post Kubeadm commands"'
  files:
    - targetPath: /etc/containerd/config.toml
      targetOwner: "root:root"
      targetPermissions: "0644"
      content: |
        ## template: jinja

        # Use config version 2 to enable new configuration fields.
        # Config file is parsed as version 1 by default.
        version = 2

        imports = ["/etc/containerd/conf.d/*.toml"]

        [plugins]
          [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri"]
            sandbox_image = "registry.k8s.io/pause:3.9"
            device_ownership_from_security_context = true
          [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri".containerd.runtimes.runc]
            runtime_type = "io.containerd.runc.v2"
          [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri".containerd.runtimes.runc.options]
            SystemdCgroup = true
```

Select **Next layer**.

> Select **Palette eXtended Kubernetes v1.32.2** from the Palette Registry (OCI).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select **Palette eXtended Kubernetes v1.32.2**.
```

Reviewer: Registries can be named different things

Select the **Properties** icon.

The Palette eXtended Kubernetes pack defaults to use a custom OIDC provider. This tutorial uses the Palette OIDC
Identity Provider. By using Palette as your OIDC provider, your cluster is configured to send authentication requests to
your Palette tenant's configured OIDC provider.

Select **Palette** as the OIDC Identity Provider.

![Image of the properties icon](/tutorials/deploy-vmo-maas/tutorials_vmo_vmo-maas_configure-OIDC-properties.webp)

Select the **Values** icon.

You may configure a different OIDC provider by uncommenting the OIDC `clientConfig` section, and adding your
configuration values.

> ![Image of the properties icon](/tutorials/deploy-vmo-maas/tutorials_vmo_vmo-maas_Configure-OIDC-Values.webp)

Reviewer: Can this be removed in the spirit of keeping this tutorial as short and to the point as possible?

The Palette eXtended Kubernetes pack is pre-configured with subnets for both the clusters internal Pods and Services.
Review the values for **podCIDR** and **serviceClusterIpRange** and update them if necessary.

![Image of the configuration lines where Pod and Services Subnets are set.](/tutorials/deploy-vmo-maas/tutorials_vmo_vmo-maas_pod-service-ips.webp)

This template contains security configurations that restrict pod actions. In order for the Rook-Ceph Container Storage
Interface (CSI) to function properly, the namespace it is deployed to must be excluded from these security

> configurations.

Reviewer: Is this required? I thought the warnings were not causing issues?

Search for `PodSecurity` and update the exceptions value for `namespaces` to include `rook-ceph`.

![Image of the pod security namespace exclusion values](/tutorials/deploy-vmo-maas/tutorials_vmo_vmo-maas_podSecurity.webp)

Select **Next layer**

> Select **Cilium v1.17.1** from the Palette Registry (OCI).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select **Cilium v1.17.1**.
```

Select **Values**.

Cilium requires customizations to support VMO. From the **Presets** drop down menu, set the value for **VMO
Compatibility** to **Enable**, and the value for **Cillium Operator** to **For Multi-Node Cluster**.

Visit the Cilium documentation site for more information on
[socket load balancers](https://docs.cilium.io/en/latest/network/Kubernetes/kubeproxy-free/#socketlb-host-netns-only)
and
[CNI configuration adjustments](https://docs.cilium.io/en/latest/network/kubernetes/configuration/#adjusting-cni-configuration).

Select **Next layer**.

> Search for and select **Rook-Ceph (Helm) v1.16.3** from the Palette Registry (OCI).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Search for and select **Rook-Ceph (Helm) v1.16.3**.
```

Select **Values**.

From the **Presets** drop down menu, set the value for **Cluster Configuration** to **Single Node Cluster**.

:::info

The preset for 'Single Node Cluster' in the rook-ceph pack implies that a single is worker node is used, not that the
Kubernetes Control Plane and workloads use a single node.

> :::

Reviewer: Remove info box and move context to paragraph before.

> Search the text editor for `replica` and change all values for **replicas** and **size** to `1`.

Reviewer: Add something like "as you are deploying a single worker node" or something to explain why.

> Example code block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml title="Example code block"
```

Reviewer: You can use titles.

    cephBlockPools:
  - name: ceph-blockpool
    # see https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/Documentation/CRDs/Block-Storage/ceph-block-pool-crd.md#spec for available configuration
    spec:
      failureDomain: host
      replicated:
        size: 1
```

Select **Confirm**.

The infrastructure layers of your Cluster Profile are now complete. You need to add some additional layers to deploy VMO
and supporting services.

Select **Add New Pack**.

> Search for metallb and select the **MetalLB (Helm) 0.14.9** pack from the Palette Registry (OCI).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Search for **metallb** and select the **MetalLB (Helm) 0.14.9** pack.
```

data.spectrocloud_cloudaccount_maas.account[0]: Read complete after 0s [id=680a7a2321e9c36a9a0efa4f]
data.spectrocloud_registry.public_registry: Read complete after 0s [id=5eecc89d0b150045ae661cef]
data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_csi: Reading...
data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_metallb: Reading...
data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_vmo: Reading...
data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_k8s: Reading...
data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_cni: Reading...
data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_ubuntu: Reading...
data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_metallb: Read complete after 0s [id=678d28cce2561ecca5cf0aea]
.
.
.
              + name    = "vmo-extras"
              + uid     = (known after apply)
            }
        }
    }

Plan: 2 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
\
```

Execute the `terraform apply` command. This process may take up to an hour or more depending on your environment.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Verify the Cluster Deployment

Navigate to the **Clusters** option in the left main menu in Palette. Select the cluster you created. On the overview
page, ensure the cluster status is healthy. No further validation is necessary.

## Deploy a Virtual Machine

<Tabs groupId="Workflows">

<TabItem label="UI" value="UI Workflow">

> Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

Reviewer: They only log in once at the beginning of the tutorial for the UI or the first time they interact with Palette for terraform.

| Start VM automatically after creation | `Halted`        | We recommend setting this value to halted to ensure no issues occur during the cloud-init process                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |

The **Customize Configuration** screen displays the yaml that will be used to build your VM. KubeVirt enables
configuration deployment, and management of your VMs using the same process used to configure and deploy pods.

The YAML config can be deployed using any deployment tools you are currently using for your Kubernetes clusters, giving
you a single platform to manage your pods and VMs. The configuration can also be manually applied using standard

> `kubectl apply -f <filename>` YAML commands.

Reviewer: Why does the user following the UI workflow need to know this?

Select **Next**.

Select **Create Virtual Machine**.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform" value="Terraform Workflow">

In this section, the Terraform scripts to deploy a new VMO Cluster to your MAAS environment are modified and executed.

> #### Update terraform.tfvars

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Prior to deploying your VM you must modify the terraform.tfvars file to reflect the configuration you want your VM to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prior to deploying your VM you must modify the `terraform.tfvars` file to reflect the configuration you want your VM to
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure how Vale is ignoring these 😆

| **vm-vpu-cores**        | `number`      | Set this value to the number of CPU cores your VM will have.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| **vm-cpu-sockets**      | `number`      | Set this value to the number of physical CPU sockets your VM needs. This is intended to enable hardware resilience in the event of a single CPU socket related failure.                                                                            |
| **vm-cpu-threads**      | `number`      | The number of CPU threads your VM is allowed to use. You can assign 1 CPU core and a single thread if desired.                                                                                                                                     |
| **vm-memory-Gi**        | `string`      | Set this value to the amount of RAM (memory) you want your VM to have. You must include 'Gi' in your value. Example `4Gi`                                                                                                                          |

> #### Deploy the Virtual Machine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Execute the `terraform plan` command to ensure there are no errors, and you have connectivity to your Spectro Cloud
tenant.

Execute the `terraform apply` command to create the VM in your VMO Cluster.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Deploy the Application

> Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

Reviewer: Same comment about the log in as before.

From the left main menu, select **Clusters**.

> Select the cluster you deployed in the _Deploy a VMO Cluster with the Palette UI_ section.

Reviewer: Link to section

Select the **Virtual Machines** tab. If the **Virtual Machines** tab is not displayed, review the RBAC configuration in
the _Deploy a VMO Cluster with the Palette UI_ section and ensure your user account and the VMO service account is

> configured as instructed.

Reviewer: We've done this validation before. Suggest remove

Select the **Virtual Machines** namespace from the **Namespace** drop down menu. Select the VM you created in the
_Deploy a Virtual Machine_ section.

Select the **Open web console** option.

> Login to your VM with the following user name and password.

Reviewer: Could they have changed it?

| **User Name** | **Password** |
| ------------- | ------------ |
| ubuntu        | spectro      |

Execute the `docker version` command to confirm Docker was successfully installed during the cloud init process.

Next, you need to pull and run the `Hello Universe` container.

> Execute `docker run -d --restart=always -p 9080:8080 ghcr.io/spectrocloud/hello-universe:1.2.0`.

Reviewer: This should be the other way around . 
"Execute  docker run bla bla. This will pull and run bla bla"

Docker will pull the specified container image from the repository if a local copy is not present. Once the image is

> pulled, docker will start the container.

Reviewer: Debating with myself whether this needs including. Leaning towards no.

In Palette, open the **Cluster Overview** page for the cluster you built. Select the download link for your clusters
admin kubeconfig file.

![Image of the admin kubeconfig link](/tutorials/deploy-vmo-maas/tutorials_vmo-mass_admin-kubeconfig.webp)

Open a terminal on your workstation. Update the command below to point to the location of the kubeconfig file you

> downloaded. The example below shows the kubeconfig file being sourced from the default download folder on a MAC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
downloaded. 
```

```shell

> export KUBECONFIG=~/Downloads/admin.your-cluster-name.kubeconfig

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export KUBECONFIG=<path-to-your-kubeconfig-file>
```

```

Use the command below to confirm the kubeconfig environment variable has been successfully exported.

```shell

user@vmo-tutorial ~ % kubectl version
Client Version: v1.32.3
Kustomize Version: v5.5.0
Server Version: v1.32.2

```

To access your app, you must create a service in Kubernetes. The service configures MetalLB to provide ingress access to
your Kubernetes cluster by mapping a network port on the nodes to the network port your app is listening on in the
cluster.

> Once the connection passes through MetalLB, the Kubernetes service acts like a load balancer inside your cluster. Since

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the connection passes through MetalLB, the Kubernetes service acts as a load balancer inside your cluster. Since
```

:::tip

If a cluster remains in the delete phase for over 15 minutes, it becomes eligible for a forced delete. To trigger a
forced delete, navigate to the cluster’s details page, select **Settings**, then select **Force Delete Cluster**.
Palette automatically removes clusters stuck in the cluster deletion phase for over 24 hours.

If a force delete is required, ensure you use the MAAS console to manually release the resources you used for this
tutorial.

:::

<br />

Navigate to the left main menu and select **Profiles**. Find the cluster profile you created and select the **three-dot
Menu** to display the **Delete** button. Select **Delete** and confirm the selection to remove the cluster profile.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform" value="Terraform Workflow">

To clean up the resources you deployed, execute the `terraform destroy` command.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Wrap-up

In this tutorial, you created a new cluster profile and used it to deploy new Kubernetes cluster with Palette Virtual
Machine Orchestrator configured on it. You deployed a VM and used Palette's features to connect to the VM and deploy the
**Hello Universe** and confirmed it was running successfully.

>  For more information on VMO, Visit the [VMO architecture](/vm-management/architecture.md) page.

Reviewer: Since we copied the VMO intro this isn't really a useful resource anymore. Maybe suggest other tutorials instead?

---
sidebar_position: 10
sidebar_label: "Deploy and Manage VMs with VMO and Terraform"
title: "Deploy and Manage VMs with VMO and Terraform"
description:
  "Learn how to create and manage Virtual Machines using Palette VMO on host clusters deployed to Canonical MAAS."
tags: ["VMO", "tutorial", "maas"]
category: ["tutorial"]
---

In this tutorial, you will deploy a VM using Palette Virtual Machine Orchestrator (VMO). You will learn about the
components that make up VMO, how to create and customize them for a Canonical MAAS VMO cluster deployment, and how to
customize and deploy a VM.

<PartialsComponent category="vmo" name="intro-to-vmo" />

## Prerequisites

<Tabs groupId="Workflows">

<TabItem label="UI Workflow" value="UI Workflow">

<PartialsComponent category="vmo" name="vmo-tutorial-requirements" />

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform Workflow" value="Terraform Workflow">

<PartialsComponent category="vmo" name="vmo-tutorial-requirements" />

- The following software installed locally

  - [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)

  - [Terraform v1.12.1](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/install)

> - Clone the Spectro Cloud Tutorials repo.

Author: added locally

notation and encapsulated in quotes. For example, `"192.168.0.0/16"`. The image below displays the OS layer with the custom manifest and updated `NETWORKS` value.

![image of the OS Layer configuration](/tutorials/deploy-vmo-maas/tutorials_vmo_vmo-maas_OS-Layer.webp)

Select **Next layer**. Add the **Palette Extended Kubernetes** pack to your cluster profile.

| **Pack Name** | **Version** | **Registry** | **Layer** |
|---------------|-------------|--------------|-----------|
| Palette eXtended Kubernetes | 1.32.2 | Public Repo | Kubernetes |

If necessary, set the **Pack Version** to `1.32.2` and select **Confirm Changes**. Select  **Values** to display the **OIDC Identity Provider** options.

The Palette eXtended Kubernetes pack defaults to use a custom OIDC provider. This tutorial uses the Palette OIDC
Identity Provider. By using Palette as your OIDC provider, your cluster is configured to send authentication requests to
your Palette tenant's configured OIDC provider.

Select **Palette** as the OIDC Identity Provider.

![Image of the properties icon](/tutorials/deploy-vmo-maas/tutorials_vmo_vmo-maas_configure-OIDC-properties.webp)

> Select the **Values** icon to open the **Manifest Editor**.

Reviewer: The manifest editor is not bolded because it is not a UI element that is named this.

The Palette eXtended Kubernetes pack is pre-configured with subnets for the clusters internal pods and services.
Review the values for **podCIDR** and **serviceClusterIpRange** and update them if necessary.

![Image of the configuration lines where Pod and Services Subnets are set.](/tutorials/deploy-vmo-maas/tutorials_vmo_vmo-maas_pod-service-ips.webp)

This template contains security configurations that restrict pod actions. While this is a good practice, it can prevent some services from functioning correctly. One such service is the **Rook-Ceph** Container Storage Interface (CSI), which you will configure later in this tutorial. 

> The **Rook-Ceph** deployment must be excluded from default pod security settings by excluding the namespace to which it will be deployed. Search the **Manifest Editor** for `namespaces` and update the value to include `rook-ceph`. The following screenshot displays the **Manifest Editor** with the `namespaces` field highlighted and the value updated.

Reviewer: This is also a good candidate for updating with the script, right?

In Palette, navigate to the left main menu and select **Clusters**. Select the cluster you created in the [Deploy a VMO Cluster](#deploy-a-vmo-cluster) to display the **Cluster Overview** screen.

The **Services** section of the cluster overview screen displays any active services or port-forwards in your cluster. Select the **:9080** link for the **hello-universe-service** to access the Hello Universe app.

:::tip

It may take up to 5 minutes for Palette to refresh your cluster's information and display the **hello-universe-service** on the **Cluster Overview** screen.

:::

![Image that shows the cluster overview of the Hello Universe Frontend Cluster](/tutorials/deploy-vmo-maas/tutorials_vmo_vmo-maas_hello-uni-service.webp)

Your result should be similar to the following screenshot.

![Image that shows the cluster overview of the Hello Universe Frontend Cluster](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_hello-universe-without-api.webp)

## Clean Up

<Tabs groupId="Workflows">

<TabItem label="UI Workflow" value="UI Workflow">

Use the following steps to remove all the resources you created for the tutorial.

> To remove the cluster, select **Clusters** from the left main menu. On the **Cluster Overview** page, select Settings** > Delete Cluster**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To remove the cluster, select **Clusters** from the left main menu. On the **Cluster Overview** page, select **Settings** > **Delete Cluster**.
```

![Delete cluster](/getting-started/azure/getting-started_deploy-k8s-cluster_delete-cluster-button.webp)

Enter the name of the cluster to confirm the delete action. The process takes several minutes to complete.

<br />

<PartialsComponent category="vmo" name="clean-up-tip" />

<br />

In Palette, navigate to the left main menu and select **Profiles**. Find the cluster profile you created in the [Create a VMO Cluster Profile](#create-a-vmo-cluster-profile) section and select the three-dot
menu to display the **Delete** button. Select **Delete** and confirm the selection to remove the cluster profile.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform Workflow" value="Terraform Workflow">

Use the `terraform destroy` command to clean up the resources you deployed.

<PartialsComponent category="vmo" name="clean-up-tip" />

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Wrap-up

In this tutorial, you created a new cluster profile and used it to deploy a new Kubernetes cluster with the Palette Virtual
Machine Orchestrator service. You deployed a VM and used Palette's features to connect to the VM and deploy the
**Hello Universe** and confirmed it was operating successfully.

> For information on VM management topics such as VM Migration and snapshots, visit visit our <VersionedLink text="VM Management" url="/vm-management/create-manage-vm/#wm-management"/> page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information on VM management topics such as VM Migration and snapshots, visit our <VersionedLink text="VM Management" url="/vm-management/create-manage-vm/#vm-management"/> page.
```

Reviewer: You don't need a VersionedLink here. You can use a regular relative link.

that make up VMO, how to create and customize them for a Canonical MAAS VMO cluster deployment, and how to customize and
deploy a VM.

## Prerequisites

- MAAS Datacenter environment.

- Two MAAS machines with the following minimum hardware requirements:

  - 8 CPU Cores
  - 32 GB RAM
  - 250 GB Storage
  - Worker node must have 2 disks

- Three routable, static IP addresses available in your MAAS environment's network.

- A MAAS user with necessary permissions.

  - _ADD PERMISSIONS HERE_

- An existing [MAAS Private Cloud Gateway (PCG)](/clusters/pcg/deploy-pcg/maas.md) in your MAAS environment.

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) installed locally.

## Cluster Profile and Cluster Creation

### Create a VMO Cluster Profile

<Tabs groupId="Workflows">

<TabItem label="UI" value="UI Workflow">

Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

From the left main menu, select **Profiles** and select **Add Cluster Profile**.

Enter the name, version number, and any tags you wish to apply to the profile. Set the type value to **Full**. Select **Next**.

> Select **MAAS** from the **infrastructure provider** column. Select **Next**.

Reviewer: Click on buttons, select tabs.

> The first profile layer is the OS layer. Your selection is used as the base OS for all nodes in your Kubernetes cluster. This tutorial uses the _Ubuntu v22.04_ OS image from the _Palette Registry (OCI)_.

Reviewer: Registries are named in Palette, they can be named smth different in other environments.

    # Clean up stale container images
    - (crontab -l || true; echo "0 4 * * * /usr/bin/crictl -c /etc/crictl.yaml rmi --prune")| crontab -
    # Update CA certs
    - update-ca-certificates
    # Start containerd with new configuration
    - systemctl daemon-reload
    - systemctl restart containerd
  postKubeadmCommands:
    - 'echo "====> Applying post Kubeadm commands"'
  files:
    - targetPath: /etc/containerd/config.toml
      targetOwner: "root:root"
      targetPermissions: "0644"
      content: |
        ## template: jinja

        # Use config version 2 to enable new configuration fields.
        # Config file is parsed as version 1 by default.
        version = 2

        imports = ["/etc/containerd/conf.d/*.toml"]

        [plugins]
          [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri"]
            sandbox_image = "registry.k8s.io/pause:3.9"
            device_ownership_from_security_context = true
          [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri".containerd.runtimes.runc]
            runtime_type = "io.containerd.runc.v2"
          [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri".containerd.runtimes.runc.options]
            SystemdCgroup = true
```

Select **Next layer**.

> The next profile layer determines the version of Kubernetes your cluster uses. Select **Palette eXtended Kubernetes

Reviewer: You don't need to explain the role of each cluster profile layer, but you do need to explain what customizations you are making and why.

---
sidebar_position: 10

> sidebar_label: "Deploy and Manage VMs with VMO and Terraform"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: "Deploy and Manage VMs with VMO"
```

Reviewer: This title needs updating if both workflows are covered.

> title: "Deploy and Manage VMs with VMO and Terraform"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Deploy and Manage VMs with VMO"
```

description:
  "Learn how to create and manage Virtual Machines using Palette VMO on host clusters deployed to Canonical MAAS."
tags: ["VMO", "tutorial", "maas"]
category: ["tutorial"]
---

> # Introduction to Palette Virtual Machine Orchestrator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

In this tutorial, you will deploy a VM using Palette Virtual Machine Orchestrator (VMO). You will learn about the components
that make up VMO, how to create and customize them for a Canonical MAAS VMO cluster deployment, and how to customize and
deploy a VM.

We recommend reviewing the [VMO architecture](/vm-management/architecture.md) page before starting this tutorial. The
architecture page describes what VMO is, a high level view of the components it uses, and provides links to more
detailed information.

## Supported Environments

VMO is supported in the following environments:

- Private Clouds
  - MAAS
  - Palette Edge
  - VMware
- Public Clouds
  - AWS

>   - Azure

Reviewer: Remove this entire thing. The VMO Architecture section documents support, not our tutorials.

## Prerequisites

<Tabs groupId="Workflows">

<TabItem label="UI" value="UI Workflow">

- A Palette account with tenant admin access.

- MAAS Datacenter environment.

- Two MAAS machines with the following minimum hardware requirements:

  - 8 CPU Cores
  - 32 GB RAM
  - 250 GB Storage (Worker node must have 2 disks)

- Two routable, static IP addresses available in your MAAS environment's network.

- A MAAS user with necessary permissions.

  - _ADD PERMISSIONS HERE_

- An existing [MAAS Private Cloud Gateway (PCG)](/clusters/pcg/deploy-pcg/maas.md) in your MAAS environment.

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) installed locally.

</TabItem>

## Cluster Profile and Cluster Creation

### Create a VMO Cluster Profile

<Tabs groupId="Workflows">

<TabItem label="UI" value="UI Workflow">

1.  Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2.  From the left main menu, select **Profiles** and select **Add Cluster Profile**.

3.  Enter the name, version number, and any tags you wish to apply to the profile. Set the type value to **Full**.
    Select **Next**.

> 4.  Select **MAAS** from the **infrastructure provider** column. Select **Next**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4.  Select **MAAS** from the **Infrastructure provider** column. Click **Next**.
```

Reviewer: We click on buttons and select tabs.

> 5.  The first profile layer is the OS layer. Your selection is used as the base OS for all nodes in your Kubernetes

Reviewer: I don't think you have to explain cluster profile layers in this tutorial.

>     cluster. This tutorial uses the _Ubuntu v22.04_ OS image from the _Palette Registry (OCI)_.

Reviewer: Registry names are configured and may be named something different in other customer environments.

    Enabling VMO Compatibility adjusts the following configurations.

    | Field                             | Default Value | Modified Value | Description                                                                                        |
    | --------------------------------- | ------------- | -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
    | cilium.cni.exclusive              | false         | true           | Instructs the cluster to remove all other CNI configuration files.                                 |
    | cilium.socketLB.hostNamespaceOnly | true          | false          | Disables socket level load balancing and moves the function back to the virtual network interface. |

        For more information on these configurations, visit the official Cilium documentation site for [socket load balancers](https://docs.cilium.io/en/latest/network/Kubernetes/kubeproxy-free/#socketlb-host-netns-only) and [CNI configuration adjustments](https://docs.cilium.io/en/latest/network/kubernetes/configuration/#adjusting-cni-configuration).

> Select **Next layer**.

Reviewer: @kenheaslip-sc pinging you to have a look at the comments above. I agree with Carolina's point and want to remind you of the restructuring I recommended.

---
sidebar_position: 10
sidebar_label: "Deploy and Manage VMs with VMO and Terraform"
title: "Deploy and Manage VMs with VMO and Terraform"
description:
  "Learn how to create and manage Virtual Machines using Palette VMO on host clusters deployed to Canonical MAAS."
tags: ["VMO", "tutorial", "maas"]
category: ["tutorial"]
---

> In this tutorial, you will deploy a VM using Palette Virtual Machine Orchestrator (VMO). You will learn about the

Author: partial removed, vmo architecture page reverted, wording kept in tutorial but the diagram has been removed.

components that make up VMO, how to create and customize them for a Canonical MAAS VMO cluster deployment, and how to
customize and deploy a VM.

<PartialsComponent category="vmo" name="intro-to-vmo" />

## Prerequisites

<Tabs groupId="Workflows">

<TabItem label="UI Workflow" value="UI Workflow">

<PartialsComponent category="vmo" name="vmo-tutorial-requirements" />

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform Workflow" value="Terraform Workflow">

<PartialsComponent category="vmo" name="vmo-tutorial-requirements" />

- The following software installed locally

  - [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)

  - [Terraform v1.12.1](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/install)

- Clone the Spectro Cloud Tutorials repo.

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/spectrocloud/tutorials.git   
    ```

- Navigate to the vmo-cluster folder

    ```shell
    cd tutorials/terraform/vmo-cluster

>     ```

Author: UPDATE WITH TUTORIAL REPO TAG BEFORE MERGE

        # Update CA certs
        - update-ca-certificates
        # Start containerd with new configuration
        - systemctl daemon-reload
        - systemctl restart containerd
      postKubeadmCommands:
        - 'echo "====> Applying post Kubeadm commands"'
      files:
        - targetPath: /etc/containerd/config.toml
          targetOwner: "root:root"
          targetPermissions: "0644"
          content: |
            ## template: jinja

            # Use config version 2 to enable new configuration fields.
            # Config file is parsed as version 1 by default.
            version = 2

            imports = ["/etc/containerd/conf.d/*.toml"]

            [plugins]
              [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri"]
                sandbox_image = "registry.k8s.io/pause:3.9"
                device_ownership_from_security_context = true
              [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri".containerd.runtimes.runc]
                runtime_type = "io.containerd.runc.v2"
              [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri".containerd.runtimes.runc.options]
                SystemdCgroup = true
    ```

> Update the value for `NETWORKS` to the appropriate "subnet for your environment. The value you enter must be in CIDR

Author: Wonder why Vale didn't snag this. Does Vale only run on the first push?

![Image of the properties icon](/tutorials/deploy-vmo-maas/tutorials_vmo_vmo-maas_configure-OIDC-properties.webp)

Select the **Values** icon to open the manifest editor.

The Palette eXtended Kubernetes pack is pre-configured with subnets for the clusters internal pods and services.
Review the values for **podCIDR** and **serviceClusterIpRange** and update them if necessary.

![Image of the configuration lines where Pod and Services Subnets are set.](/tutorials/deploy-vmo-maas/tutorials_vmo_vmo-maas_pod-service-ips.webp)

This template contains security configurations that restrict pod actions. While this is a good practice, it can prevent some services from functioning correctly. One such service is the **Rook-Ceph** Container Storage Interface (CSI), which you will configure later in this tutorial. 

The **Rook-Ceph** deployment must be excluded from default pod security settings by excluding the namespace to which it will be deployed. The following screenshot displays the manifest editor with the `namespaces` field highlighted and the value updated.

![Image of the pod security namespace exclusion values](/tutorials/deploy-vmo-maas/tutorials_vmo_vmo-maas_podSecurity.webp)

> Select **Values** and paste the following configuration into the manifest editor.

Author: added locally

| Direct                | This mode is intended for use in an environment with no access restrictions. Communications to the cluster are open and reachable from your corporate networks. This mode will configure the MetallB load balancer to allow ingress to VMO services.                                         |

For more information on the Spectro proxy, visit the
[Official Spectro Proxy documentation page](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/integrations/packs/?pack=spectro-proxy&version=1.5.6&parent=1.5.x&tab=main)

Select **Values** and set the **Access** option to **Proxied**.

The VMO pack contains prerequisite CRDs for subsequent packs. The **Install Order** field lets you control your packs' installation order using numerical values. The install order value defaults to `0`, which implies top
priority. The higher the value is, the lower the install priority is.

Set the **Install Order** value to `10`. Packs that depend on this pack will have their install order value set to 11 or greater, ensuring they are installed after the VMO pack. 

> Select the **Values** icon, remove all configurations in the manifest editor, and paste in the configuration below.

Author: Yes, there were some config changes including addition of a full block of config for storage snapshots.

Select **Add Cluster Profile**.

In the **Choose a Profile** slide-out menu, locate and select the cluster profile you created in the [Create a VMO Cluster Profile](#create-a-vmo-cluster-profile) section. Select **Confirm**.

The **Cluster Profile** screen provides the details of all the packs in the selected cluster profile. Palette
enables the same profile to be used for multiple clusters by allowing you to change pack values, modify presets, or set
variable values for your packs when they are used to create a new cluster. Select **Next** to accept the cluster profile.

The wizard begins to guide you through configuring the hardware Palette will use to build your cluster. Select your target MAAS domain from the **Domain drop-down menu**. Select **Next**.

The **Node pools configuration** screen allows customization of the control plane node pool, worker node pool, and
which MAAS machines will be used to build your cluster.

The **CONTROL-PLANE-POOL-CONFIGURATION** section allows changes to Kubernetes values that will apply to your
control plane nodes. No changes are required in this section.

> The Control Plane—Cloud Configuration section lets you control the specifications of the MAAS machines for your control plane nodes. The following table provides information about the values and how to set them.

Author: the UI is messy with its headings here. Adding this one to a 1-1 review

> The Control Plane—Cloud Configuration section lets you control the specifications of the MAAS machines for your control plane nodes. The following table provides information about the values and how to set them.

Author: fixed locally

| **Minimum CPU**         | Enter the minimum number of CPU cores you want your Control Plane server to have. We recommend values higher than 4.                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| **Minimum Memory (GB)** | Enter the minimum memory you want your Control Plane server to have.                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Availability zones  | This optional value allows you to specify which MAAS Availability Zones to use for your control plane node deployments. This configuration is critical to consider when planning high-availability infrastructure deployments.                                                                 |

> | Tags                | This optional value allows you to assign a tag to the MAAS machine selected for the build. <br /> To learn more about MAAS automatic tags, refer to the [MAAS Tags](https://maas.cloud.cbh.kth.se/MAAS/docs/cli/how-to-tag-machines.html#heading--how-to-create-automatic-tags) documentation. |

Author: updated locally

The **WORKER-POOL-CONFIGURATION**  section requires no changes. We recommend reviewing these values to understand how they
impact the deployment and how you might use them in a production deployment.

> The **Worker Pool - Cloud Configuration** section lets you control the specifications of the MAAS machines for your worker nodes The following table provides information about the values and how to set them.

Author: another to confirm with UI

> The **Worker Pool - Cloud Configuration** section lets you control the specifications of the MAAS machines for your worker nodes The following table provides information about the values and how to set them.

Author: fixed locally but the UI is a mess. It's not completely clear which section we are targetting.

| **inputs.tf**           | This file contains all the Terraform variables required for the deployment logic.                                      |
| **data.tf**             | This file contains all the query resources that perform read actions.                                                  |
| **cluster_profiles.tf** | This file contains the cluster profile definitions for each cloud provider.                                            |
| **cluster.tf**         | This file has the cluster configurations required to deploy a host cluster to one of the cloud providers.              |
| **terraform.tfvars**    | Use this file to target a specific cloud provider and customize the deployment. This is the only file you must modify. |
| **virtual-machines.tf**           | This file contains the configuration that will be applied to the VM you create in your VMO cluster.                     |

Expand the details boxes for more info on the Terraform files used in this tutorial.

<details>
  <summary>provider.tf</summary>

The **provider.tf** file contains the Terraform providers used in the tutorial and their respective versions. This

> tutorial uses four providers:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tutorial uses three providers:
```

          source  = "spectrocloud/spectrocloud"
        }

        tls = {
          source  = "hashicorp/tls"
          version = "4.0.4"
        }

        local = {
          source  = "hashicorp/local"
          version = "2.4.1"
        }
      }

      required_version = ">= 1.9"
    }

    provider "spectrocloud" {
      # API key set through the environment variable SPECTROCLOUD_APIKEY
      project_name = var.palette-project
    }
    ```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>cluster_profiles.tf</summary>

The `spectrocloud_cluster_profile`
resource allows you to create a cluster profile and customize its layers. You can specify the packs and versions to use
or add a manifest or Helm chart.

Cluster profiles include layers for the Operating System (OS), Kubernetes, container network interface, and
container storage interface. The first `pack {}` block in the list equates to the bottom layer of the cluster profile.
Ensure you define the bottom layer of the cluster profile - the OS layer - first in the list of `pack {}` blocks, as the
order in which you arrange the contents of the `pack {}` blocks plays an important role in the cluster profile creation.

> The table below displays the packs deployed in each version of the cluster profile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The table below displays the packs used in the cluster profiles.
```

| **Pack Type** | **Pack Name**      | **Version** |
|---------------|--------------------|-------------|
| OS | `ubuntu-maas 22.04` | `22.04` |
| Kubernetes | `kubernetes` | `1.32.3` |
| Network | `cni-ccilium-oss 1.17.1` | `1.17.1` |
| Storage | `csi--rook-ceph-helm 1.16.3` | `1.16.3` |
| Load Balancer | `lb-metallb-helm 0.14.9` | `0.14.9` |
| App Services | `virtual-machine-orchestrator 4.6.3` | `4.6.3` |

> | Custom Manifest | `vmo-extras' | `1.0.0` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Custom Manifest | `vmo-extras` | `1.0.0` |
```

        })
        type = "spectro"
      }

      pack {
        name = data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_metallb.name
        tag  = data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_metallb.version
        uid  = data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_metallb.id
        values = templatefile("manifests/metallb-values.yaml", {
          metallb-ip-pool = var.metallb-ip-pool
        })
        type = "spectro"
      }

      pack {
        name = data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_vmo.name
        tag  = data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_vmo.version
        uid  = data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_vmo.id
        values = templatefile("manifests/vmo-values.yaml", {
          vmo-network-interface = var.vmo-network-interface,
          vm-vlans              = var.vm-vlans,
          host-vlans            = var.host-vlans
        })
        type = "spectro"
      }

      pack {
        name   = "vmo-extras"
        type   = "manifest"
        tag    = "1.0.0"
        values = file("manifests/vmo-extras-values.yaml")
        manifest {
          name = "vmo-extras"
          content = templatefile("manifests/vmo-extras-manifest.yaml", {
            palette-user-id = var.palette-user-id
          })
        }
      }

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    }
    ```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>cluster.tf</summary>

The **cluster.tf** file contains the definitions required for deploying a host cluster to one of the infrastructure

> providers. To create an MAAS host cluster, you must set the `deploy-maas` variable in the `terraform.tfvars` file to true.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
providers. To create a MAAS host cluster, you must set the `deploy-maas` variable in the `terraform.tfvars` file to true.
```

      pause_agent_upgrades = "unlock"

      cloud_config {
        domain = var.maas-domain
      }

      cluster_profile {
        id = resource.spectrocloud_cluster_profile.maas-vmo-profile[0].id
      }

      machine_pool {
        name          = "maas-control-plane"
        count         = 1
        control_plane = true
        azs           = var.maas-control-plane-azs
        node_tags     = var.maas-control-plane-node-tags
        instance_type {
          min_cpu       = var.ctl-node-min-cpu
          min_memory_mb = var.ctl-node-min-memory-mb
        }
        placement {
          resource_pool = var.maas-control-plane-resource-pool
        }
      }

      machine_pool {
        name      = "maas-worker-basic"
        count     = 1
        azs       = var.maas-worker-azs
        node_tags = var.maas-worker-node-tags
        instance_type {
          min_cpu       = var.wrk-node-min-cpu
          min_memory_mb = var.wrk-node-min-memory-mb
        }
        placement {
          resource_pool = var.maas-worker-resource-pool
        }
      }
    }
    ```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>data.tf</summary>

> Each pack {} block contains references to a data resource. Data resources are used to perform read actions in Terraform. The Spectro Cloud Terraform provider exposes several data resources to help you make your Terraform code more dynamic. The data resource used in the cluster profile is spectrocloud_pack. This resource lets you query Palette for information about a specific pack, such as its unique ID, registry ID, available versions, and YAML values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each pack {} block contains references to a data resource. Data resources are used to perform read actions in Terraform. The Spectro Cloud Terraform provider exposes several data resources to help you make your Terraform code more dynamic. The data resource used in the cluster profile is `spectrocloud_pack`. This resource lets you query Palette for information about a specific pack, such as its unique ID, registry ID, available versions, and YAML values.
```

Author: copy pasta from another tutorial :D

          }
        }
      }

      disk {
        name = "ubuntu-2204"
        disk_device {
          disk {
            bus = "virtio"
          }
        }
      }
      disk {
        name = "cloudinitdisk"
        disk_device {
          disk {
            bus = "virtio"
          }
        }
      }

      cpu {
        cores   = var.vm-cpu-cores
        sockets = var.vm-cpu-sockets
        threads = var.vm-cpu-threads
      }
      memory {
        guest = var.vm-memory-Gi
      }

      resources {}

      interface {
        name                     = "default"
        interface_binding_method = "InterfaceMasquerade"
      }

      network {
        name = "default"
        network_source {
          pod {}
        }
      }
    }
    ```

</details>

#### Custom Network Configuration

The VMO pack may require custom network configurations to function correctly in your environment. Expand the following details box for more information.

<PartialsComponent category="vmo" name="custom-network-requirements" />

#### Terraform Cluster Deployment

To deploy a cluster using Terraform, you must first modify the `terraform.tfvars` file. Open it in the editor of your choice. 

> The **terraform.tfvars** file is structured into sections. Each section contains variables that need to be filled in, identified by the placeholder `REPLACE_ME`. Additionally, there is a toggle variable named `deploy-maas` must be set to `true` to deploy your MAAS cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **terraform.tfvars** file is structured into sections. Each section contains variables that need to be filled in, identified by the placeholder `REPLACE_ME`. Additionally, there is a toggle variable named `deploy-maas` that must be set to `true` to deploy your MAAS cluster.
```

In the **Palette Settings** section, modify the name of the palette-project variable if you wish to deploy to a Palette project different from the default one.

> For more information about the variables and their usage, refer to the [.README](https://github.com/spectrocloud/tutorials/blob/main/terraform/vmo-cluster/README.md) file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about the variables and their usage, refer to the [README](https://github.com/spectrocloud/tutorials/blob/main/terraform/vmo-cluster/README.md) file.
```

Execute the `terraform plan` command to ensure there are no errors and you have connectivity to your Spectro Cloud
tenant.

    ```shell
    terraform plan
    data.spectrocloud_registry.public_registry: Reading...
    data.spectrocloud_cloudaccount_maas.account[0]: Reading...
    data.spectrocloud_cloudaccount_maas.account[0]: Read complete after 0s [id=680a7a2321e9c36a9a0efa4f]
    data.spectrocloud_registry.public_registry: Read complete after 0s [id=5eecc89d0b150045ae661cef]
    data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_csi: Reading...
    data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_metallb: Reading...
    data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_vmo: Reading...
    data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_k8s: Reading...
    data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_cni: Reading...
    data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_ubuntu: Reading...
    data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_metallb: Read complete after 0s [id=678d28cce2561ecca5cf0aea]
    .
    .
    .
                  + name    = "vmo-extras"
                  + uid     = (known after apply)
                }
            }
        }

    Plan: 2 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
    \

>     ```

Reviewer 2: Please separate the command snippet and the output snippet as per our style guide. use [this tutorial](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/getting-started/aws/deploy-manage-k8s-cluster-tf/#deploy-the-cluster) as an example, leave only the `plan` sentence in the command output

Execute the `terraform apply` command. Depending on your environment, this process may take up to an hour or more. You can monitor the progress of your cluster build by logging into your [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com) tenant and selecting **Clusters** from the left main menu. 

> Lastly, you must configure cluster role bindings for your user account and the `virtual-machine-orchestrator` service account

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lastly, you must configure cluster role bindings for your user account and the `virtual-machine-orchestrator` service account.
```

The **Customize Configuration** screen displays the YAML used to build your VM. KubeVirt enables
configuration, deployment, and management of your VMs using the same process used to configure and deploy pods.

Select **Next** to apply your customizations. Select **Create Virtual Machine**.

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform Workflow" value="Terraform Workflow">

This section introduces and reviews the Terraform scripts used to deploy a VM into your MAAS VMO cluster.

Before deploying your VM, you must modify the `terraform.tfvars` file to reflect the configuration you want your VM to
have. Update `terraform.tfvars` as instructed in the following table.

| **Variable**       | **Data Type** | **Instruction**                                                                                                                                                              |
| ------------------ | ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | **deploy-maas-vm** | `boolean`     | This is a true of false value. If true, an Ubuntu 22.04 VM with Docker installed is deployed in your VMO cluster. Set this value to `true` for this section of the tutorial. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **deploy-maas-vm** | `boolean`     | If true, an Ubuntu 22.04 VM with Docker installed is deployed in your VMO cluster. Set this value to `true` for this section of the tutorial. |
```
no need to define what a boolean is :)

> | **vm-deploy-namespace** | `string`      | Set this value to the name of the VLAN you want your VMs to deploy on.<br/><br/>These namespaces are standard Kubernetes namespaces. Your VM is impacted by any configurations applied at the namespace level, such as network policies and quotas. |

Reviewer 2: the namespace name must be the vlan name? what?

Author: ya... that never happened 👎

| **vm-deploy-name**      | `string`      | Set this value to the name you want your VM to have.                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| **vm-labels**           | `string`      | Set this value to a single label you want applied to your VM. For multiple labels, you must modify _virtual_machines.tf_ to include one line for each label.                                                                                       |

> | **vm-storage-Gi**       | `string`      | Set this value to the disk size you want your VM to have. You must include 'Gi' in your value. Example `50Gi`                                                                                                                                   |
> | **vm-vpu-cores**        | `number`      | Set this value to the number of CPU cores your VM will have.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
> | **vm-cpu-sockets**      | `number`      | Set this value to the number of physical CPU sockets your VM needs. This is intended to enable hardware resilience in case of a single CPU socket-related failure.                                                                            |
> | **vm-cpu-threads**      | `number`      | The number of CPU threads your VM can use. You can assign 1 CPU core and a single thread if desired.                                                                                                                                     |
> | **vm-memory-Gi**        | `string`      | Set this value to the amount of RAM (memory) you want your VM to have. You must include 'Gi' in your value. Example `4Gi`                                                                                                                          |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **vm-storage-Gi**       | `string`      | Set this value to the disk size you want your VM to have. You must include 'Gi' in your value. For example, `50Gi`.                                                                                                                                   |
| **vm-vpu-cores**        | `number`      | Set this value to the number of CPU cores your VM will have.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| **vm-cpu-sockets**      | `number`      | Set this value to the number of physical CPU sockets your VM needs. This is intended to enable hardware resilience in case of a single CPU socket-related failure.                                                                            |
| **vm-cpu-threads**      | `number`      | The number of CPU threads your VM can use. You can assign 1 CPU core and a single thread if desired.                                                                                                                                     |
| **vm-memory-Gi**        | `string`      | Set this value to the amount of RAM (memory) you want your VM to have. You must include 'Gi' in your value. For example, `4Gi`.                                                                                                                          |
```

> Execute the `terraform plan` command to ensure there are no errors and you have connectivity to your Spectro Cloud

Reviewer 2: Same comment about the commands. create one box for each command, keep only the last line in the command output box. snippets:
terraform plan
output of plan
terraform apply --auto-approve

tenant.

    ```shell
    terraform plan
    data.spectrocloud_registry.public_registry: Reading...
    data.spectrocloud_cloudaccount_maas.account[0]: Reading...
    data.spectrocloud_cloudaccount_maas.account[0]: Read complete after 0s [id=680a7a2321e9c36a9a0efa4f]
    data.spectrocloud_registry.public_registry: Read complete after 0s [id=5eecc89d0b150045ae661cef]
    data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_csi: Reading...
    data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_metallb: Reading...
    data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_vmo: Reading...
    data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_k8s: Reading...
    data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_cni: Reading...
    data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_ubuntu: Reading...
    data.spectrocloud_pack.maas_metallb: Read complete after 0s [id=678d28cce2561ecca5cf0aea]
    .
    .
    .
                }
            }
        }

    Plan: 1 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.

    ```

> Execute the `terraform apply` command to create the VM in your VMO Cluster.

Reviewer 2: how can I ensure the vm is ready to go? how long does it take? please clarify

Author: added locally

Use the password you configured if you made changes in the [Deploy a Virtual Machine](#deploy-a-virtual-machine) section.

Execute the `docker version` command to confirm Docker was successfully installed during the cloud-init process.

Execute `docker run -d --restart=always -p 9080:8080 ghcr.io/spectrocloud/hello-universe:1.2.0`. This will pull and run the `Hello Universe` container.

In Palette, open the **Cluster Overview** page for the cluster you built in the [Deploy a VMO Cluster](#deploy-a-vmo-cluster) section. Select the download link for your cluster's admin kubeconfig file.

![Image of the admin kubeconfig link](/tutorials/deploy-vmo-maas/tutorials_vmo-mass_admin-kubeconfig.webp)

Open a terminal on your workstation. Update the following command to set the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable to your downloaded file.

    ```shell

    export KUBECONFIG=<path-to-your-kubeconfig-file>

    ```

Use the following command to confirm the kubeconfig environment variable has been successfully exported.

    ```shell

    user@vmo-tutorial ~ % kubectl version
    Client Version: v1.32.3
    Kustomize Version: v5.5.0
    Server Version: v1.32.2

    ```

> To access your app, you must create a service in Kubernetes. The service configures MetalLB to provide ingress access to

Author: it kind of is the ingress but I understand the confusion with the wording

| **Variable**            | **Data Type** | **Instruction**                                                                              |
| ----------------------- | ------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **ctl-node-min-cpu**    | _number_      | Set this to the minimum number of CPU cores you want assigned to your control plan nodes.    |
| **ctl-node-min-mem-mb** | _number_      | Set this to the minimum amount of RAM (Memory) you want assigned to your control plan nodes. |
| **wrk-node-min-cpu**    | _number_      | Set this to the minimum number of CPU cores you want assigned to your worker nodes.          |
| **wrk-node-min-mem-mb** | _number_      | Set this to the minimum amount of RAM (Memory) you want assigned to your worker nodes.       |

**Kubernetes Values**

| **Variable**              | **Data Type** | **Instruction**                                                                                                   |
| ------------------------- | ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | **pod-CIDR**              | _string_      | Set this value to the subnet you want your pods to run on. Format must ne standard CIDR notation "192.168.0.0/24" |

Author: vale rules being updated to allow use of "run"
